These methods are base on two-main principles, but they all have different characteristics.

And how do we describe the characteristics of a typing method?

First of all we have the typeability.
Typeability refers to the proportions of distinct strains in a bacteria population that can be assigned a type marker by that precise method.
So, if a method is able to type many strains in a bacteria population, then we will know that there is a good typeability of that method for that bacteria species.

Another very important characteristics is the discriminatory power.
The discriminatory power is the probability that the method assigned to different types to a related strains in a bacterial population.
The higher the discriminatory power of the method, the finer the resolution between bacterial individuals.

Then we have the reproducibility, another very important characteristic of a typing method.
Because this tells you about the proportions of isolates that will be typed the same will end up
being the same type in repeated testing over a long period of time.
So this is somehow refers to the possibility that the method gives the same result overtime.

And then of course we have to consider also more practical and referring to the laboratory capacity.
So, first of all, what is the cost of the method? Can the laboratory afford that cost? What is the rapidity?

If we need fast result, can we afford maybe a method that has a very good discriminatory power,
but will give us results over a week.

So, what we need to really understand, and that clear is that every time we choose a typing method we have to consider what is the purpose.

If we want to trace an outbreak, we will need a method that has a very high discriminatory power because we want to know
if strains in different individuals are related to each other or not.

If we want to perform long-term surveillance, we are not really interested in very fine differences between strains, but we want to have a more general picture.

So the key take home message of this short video lecture is that there are many many methods to type or characterize bacteria.
And all these methods have advantages and disadvantages.
So at the end of the day the choice of a typing methods depend on the question that you have to answer.